Configuration system for CLI (#6708)
qmk/qmk_firmware: docs/cli.md

# Overview

> The QMK CLI makes building and working with QMK keyboards easier. We have provided a number of commands to make working with QMK easier and more streamlined.

Reviewer: How about mentioning a couple of examples?

```suggestion
The QMK CLI makes building and working with QMK keyboards easier. We have provided a number of commands to simplify and streamline tasks such as obtaining and compiling the QMK firmware, creating keymaps, and more.
```

Otherwise, it's not until you scroll down to the list of subcommands that you really get an idea of what the CLI is good for.

* [Global CLI](#global-cli)
* [Local CLI](#local-cli)
* [CLI Commands](#cli-commands)

# Requirements

The CLI requires Python 3.5 or greater. We try to keep the number of requirements small but you will also need to install the packages listed in [`requirements.txt`](https://github.com/qmk/qmk_firmware/blob/master/requirements.txt).

# Global CLI

> QMK provides an installable CLI that can be used to setup your QMK build environment, work with QMK, and which makes working with multiple `qmk_firmware` clones easier. We recommend installing and updating this periodically.

Reviewer: Thanks for the context. Yes, I think "copies" works well if you want to avoid Git-related jargon. Perhaps "multiple copies of `qmk_firmware`" would be marginally clearer than "multiple `qmk_firmware` copies".

> QMK provides an installable CLI that can be used to setup your QMK build environment, work with QMK, and which makes working with multiple `qmk_firmware` clones easier. We recommend installing and updating this periodically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
QMK provides an installable CLI that can be used to set up your QMK build environment, work with QMK, and which makes working with multiple copies of `qmk_firmware` easier. We recommend installing and updating this periodically.
```

pip3 install qmk
export QMK_HOME='~/qmk_firmware' # Optional, set the location for `qmk_firware`
qmk setup  # This will clone `qmk/qmk_firmware` and optionally setup your build environment
```

## Packaging For Other Operating Systems

We are looking for people to create and maintain a `qmk` package for more operating systems. If you would like to create a package for your OS please follow these guidelines:

* Follow best practices for your OS when they conflict with these guidelines
    * Documment why in a comment when you do deviate
* Install using a virtualenv
* Instruct the user to set the environment variable `QMK_HOME` to have the firmware source checked out somewhere other than `~/qmk_firmware`.

# Local CLI

If you do not want to use the global CLI there is a local CLI bundled with `qmk_firmware`. You can find it in `qmk_firmware/bin/qmk`. You can run the `qmk` command from any directory and it will always operate on that copy of `qmk_firmware`.

**Example**:

```
$ ~/qmk_firmware/bin/qmk hello
Ψ Hello, World!
```

## Local CLI Limitations

There are some limitations to the local CLI compared to the global CLI:

* The local CLI does not support `qmk setup` or `qmk clone`

> * The local CLI always operates on the same `qmk_firmware` tree, even if you have multiple clones

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The local CLI always operates on the same `qmk_firmware` tree, even if you have multiple repositories
```

Although this usage is clearer than above—feel free to ignore.

```
qmk cformat [file1] [file2] [...] [fileN]
```

## `qmk config`

This command lets you configure the behavior of QMK. For the full `qmk config` documentation see [CLI Configuration](cli_configuration.md).

**Usage**:

```
qmk config [-ro] [config_token1] [config_token2] [...] [config_tokenN]
```

## `qmk doctor`

This command examines your environment and alerts you to potential build or flash problems.

**Usage**:

```
qmk doctor
```

## `qmk new-keymap`

This command creates a new keymap based on a keyboard's existing default keymap.

**Usage**:

```
qmk new-keymap [-kb KEYBOARD] [-km KEYMAP]
```

## `qmk pyformat`

> This command formats python code in `qmk_firmware`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command formats python code in the `qmk_firmware` repository.
```
